# TensileStrength_RFIDTags
This repository contains project outline, code and report on design and analysis on an experiment to test the tensile strength of RFID tags
Project Description:
In this project, we propose to test the mechanical properties of composite materials that have RFID tags embedded into the layers of the material. Previous research from Dumstorff, Paul, and Lang (2014) utilized a simulated analysis of what mechanical strengths occur in these materials but no one has published research in this area. Our interest in this research is to try and determine with physical testing that the inclusion of small scale electronics such as RFID does not significantly affect the mechanical properties of a part. The materials to be used in this experiment are a Kevlar reinforcement suspended in an epoxy matrix and glass reinforcement suspended in an epoxy matrix. The RFID tag is an Alien ALN-9640 Higgs 3 tag.
In this proposal four types of parts will be analyzed. The first part will be our control part that has no RFID tag embedded into the material. The second part will have the Alien tag embedded into the layers of the material. The third part will have the same Alien tag embedded but with the backing material cut away leaving only the antenna and IC. The fourth part will again be the same Alien tag but the tag will be abraded with a sand paper. There will be two types of reinforcements used in this research. One is a Kevlar while the other is glass. Kevlar has been selected because of its status as an advanced composite reinforcement and glass because it is an engineering composite and the most widely used type of composite reinforcement. The results will be obtained through testing compression strength. These tests are designed to measure the bonding of the matrix to the reinforcement as well as the compressive strength of the reinforcement
